# Week 5 Reflection

This week saw my continued efforts to get citation information translated from data books. Most of the translations I have sent out to IHME employees have come back and they look great, which is really exciting. I am having trouble finding people who speak Arabic, Farsi, and Polish within the organization. I met with members of the Data Library Services team to brainstorm ideas and got a lot of help there. The strategy we developed was to put a call for help out on the IHME Slack, which I have since done to no avail. I have directly emailed the only person at IHME who is listed as speaking Arabic. Hopefully, they will get back soon, ideally with the names of other people in the organization who speak the language. The strategy moving forward will be to reach out to UW subject librarians to see if they know of any resources, and as a last resort solicit the paid translation services IHME utilizes for some of their press materials.

I must admit I do feel uncomfortable soliciting the help of people doing important research just because they speak another language since I am unable to pay them for their labor. I hope their language skills are accurately reflected in their salaries. 

IHME just switched to a new purchasing system, so the re-binding items have yet to come in. I am not too worried, however, there is still plenty to work on from translations, to inventorying (which I intend to learn more about this week), to creating QR codes in preparation for processing the rebound materials. It's going to be a busy last couple of weeks! 
